# The Nigerian Demography: The Standard of Living and Quality of Life 

The annual GDP rate of the country has been recovering since 2018, after the sharp drop in 2015. This resulted to a huge recession that affected the economy and life style of the masses. Perhaps the oil price shock that started in mid 2014 caused all these. According to NBS, the economy of Nigeria advanced 2.28% in the third quarter of 2019. That was the fastest expansion since the fourth quarter of 2018, as oil output grew the most in over three years. However, with the current GDP growing rate the country is recorded as the 31st largest economy in the world.

In economics, the standard of living is the amount of goods and services produced and available for purchase by a person, family or nation while the quality of life goes further to measure characteristics like comfort, satisfaction and relationships. One having a good standard of living does not define the individual's quality of life. Sadly the known measurement of GDP per capita, which divides GDP equally among everybody in a country, gives a false report. This is because it does not put into consideration income differences. Some earn relatively high  incomes compared to others. As at 2018, Nigeria with a population of over 200 million had a GDP per capita of 2,033 USD (World Bank Data). Literally every Nigerian was worth that amount as at 2018 which is poor. So far, Nigeria is ranked 147th position out of 196 countries whose GDP per capita were recorded (countryeconomy.com).

A high or growing GDP often times does not mean a growing economy. The major determinant of growth is how well this GDP reflects on every individual. A country might look buoyant but each individual that make up the nation would be living very poorly. It all depends on the population of that country. Therefore a higher population demands a higher GDP for its economic growth. 

Practically, Nigeria must have been very familiar with negative remarks like 'bad economy' and 'high standard of living' that many are finding hard to meet up with. This research paper took a survey from average Nigerians to reveal facts on the economy and to know how well they live.
